[MUSIC]
Good students get a better understanding
of something if they know the history of it.
If they know where, if they know
where it's come from.
That's my, my view.
So when I go to class, andI go to the
interface design class, for instance, I
can take them down to the museum and show
them what an early interface was.
We, we talk about interface design,
and they think
of their, their hand-held computer, their
laptop, their desktop.
And they look at the screen and they think
that's we have, that's an
interface, and sure it is but where, you
know, how did we get there?
What was the early interface with
computers?
And I take them down to the
Ferranti Sirius and
they say, well, what's the interface here
with the computer.
So it's, it's giving them the idea of what
an interface is by, by taking them back to
something that's that looks very primitive
and, and then
we look at the evolution of interfaces
over time.
We look at the different applications,
you know,
we go back and look at VisiCalc and
WordStar and things like that and
sort of progress
through the different versions of these
different products and
>> You actually have like running
VisiCalc?
>> No, no we don't [CROSSTALK]
but I think it just broadens their
outlook on IT and
I think it's a danger with computing
students that they become very,
become very focused on the latest,
and quickly discard the
technology they're using when the
next one comes along and forget about it.
>> Even before we had the museum we were
lucky, we had the CSIRAC, I've
mentioned CSIRAC to you.
The world's number four digital stored
program computer was left over, used till
about' 65 So about' 72 or so it arrived
on campus just for storage purposes.
But we put it in a display area.
When I first arrived and my teaching
here in
about '88 I began to teach. And I
would always take my
introduction to computer architecture
students past it, it had so
much to tell students about the origin
of operating systems
the primary function of operating systems
to allocate resources and move
the efficiency of use of resources.
>> With the programming students I can
show
them things like punch cards and things
like this.
You know, how did we get information into
the computers and show them things like
that.
So it might be part of one class in a
semester,
using the museum in particular for my classes.
And others use it too in a similar way.
But we do have school children coming on
visits and then we have about an hour or
two and we take them through the museum
starting with the calculating machines.
And we talk about what what did people
do before computers, and about
things like this.
What is a computer?
Where did we get the name computing from?
And I've got this picture of women using
slide rules in 1948,I think it was,
in, this is in America,
doing their calculations.
And the idea that the first computers were
people, okay, and, and
often they were women, so that's kind of
an interesting bit of social history there.
So trying to connect the computers
and state of the
technology to what was happening in
society at the time.
>> The physical aspects that are
important today.
That idea of physical is still carried
forward even today as we're looking
to see what we can do with the full museum
that we've created now.
We've toyed with ideas of a web-based series
of exhibitions, photographing all of
the artifacts, and making sure that people
can sort of browse through, and
move through halls.
We feel that even with that web-based
teaching methods,
we would still like to have physical
artifacts, we've toyed with
a box of artifacts that we would
send out to
schools that are working on our program,
doing an educational program.
So, the physical hands-on is a very
important thing.
Museum curators understand it.
People who aren't museum curators
tend not to.
>> We had a, a staff member in our,
in our school.
When we started the museum, I was
talking to her
and, and said oh, we will have
slide rules in it.
Now she had done an honors
degree in maths.
And she had not heard, she not that she
hadn't seen a slide rule, she didn't even
know what one was and that, to me, was
amazing because when I went to uni,
everyone carried a slide rule, you know.
We all had [LAUGH] this is my slide rule
from my university.
We all had these, as science students,
engineering students,
we all had these tools, and she was
probably ten years younger than me,
and suddenly
had no idea what I was even talking about.
Haven't heard the word. So I think that
really made me
realize that history is so quickly
forgotten and it is
a danger that we just, yeah, we
forget about these things,
and if we don't have them around for
people to see, they
forget about the history of the
technology that they're
using and I think that's a real danger.
[MUSIC]